Pdfmorph web-page (#23)
diffpy/diffpy.github.io: products/PDFmorph.rst

.. include:: ../abbreviations.txt

> 

Author: @sbillinge [this](https://github.com/RomanMatthew/diffpy.github.io/blob/pdfmorph_web/products/PDFmorph.rst) would be the closest we can get (for now) to a real preview of what it'll look like on the page (some of the formatting and text that actually gets shown is different

Reviewer: I just published the preview at http://pavoljuhas.github.io/diffpy.github.io.
There is currently no link from the menu to the PDFmorph page, which is at http://pavoljuhas.github.io/diffpy.github.io/products/PDFmorph.html.

@RomanMatthew - to create your own preview, please do
```sh
# ONCE
git fetch https://github.com/pavoljuhas/diffpy.github.io.git gh-pages:gh-pages
git push -u https://github.com/RomanMatthew/diffpy.github.io.git gh-pages:gh-pages

# to update the page
make html
make PUBLISHBRANCH=gh-pages publish-prepare publish-push
```

Author: @pavoljuhas Sorry if these questions are elementary, but how do we put the link to PDFmorph page into the products menu? I updated the index in this PR and thought that would do it - I'm a little new to the structure of this stuff right now. 

Getting on the sphinx stuff now!

Reviewer: > ... how do we put the link to PDFmorph page into the products menu?

No problem - you need to add a new entry for PDFmorph to [_templates/menu01.html](https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.github.io/blob/4f32f41ce1bc784daf165b70d69ed277c8d5675c/_templates/menu01.html#L16).
I think the reason why is this maintained manually is that we wanted to choose what shows in the product menu rather than have it auto-generated from sphinx titles.

PS2: A good way of checking how are other product pages put together is to use `git grep` -
```sh
git grep -liw pdfgui
```

Author: that particular fix (with the products menu) should be taken care of @pavoljuhas ! Thank you for the hosting tip!

Author: both of the last commands seem to have given me some issues - the last one gives 

`fatal: 'gh-pages' does not appear to be a git repository
fatal: Could not read from remote repository.`

Could the problem with the license be related to the path that I used? I'm not too sure how the path tracing works in .rst!

Reviewer: > both of the last commands seem to have given me some issues - the last one gives
> fatal: 'gh-pages' does not appear to be a git repository fatal: Could not read from remote repository.

@RomanMatthew - I think it is easier to fix this over hangouts call, feel free to call me at my gmail.

########
PDFmorph
########

Overview
========

.. note::
	The PDFmorph application has a Command Line Interface. If you are 

> 	unfamiliar with the CLI, it is recommended that you consult online

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	unfamiliar with the terminal or windows command prompt, it is recommended that you consult online
```

	resources and become somewhat familiar before using PDFmorph.

PDFmorph is a Python software package designed to increase the insight researchers
can obtain from measured atomic pair distribution functions (PDFs) in a model 
independent way. The program was designed to help a researcher answer the question: 
"has my material undergone a phase transition between these two measurements?"

> PDFmorph makes use of several data manipulation techniques to correct for benign

Author: @sbillinge I shortened the description a little bit here - please let me know if it's too detrimental to the content itself!

Reviewer 3: It is good.  Make sure there is a pointer to the user manual documentation

btw, please make an issue to check all the docstrings.

Author: There's no manual in the diffpy.pdfmorph master, so I assume I'll have to link that once I make it, right? and will do on the docstrings issue! Would that be for this particular PR?

Reviewer 4: package specific doc should go to diffpy.pdfmorph repo in a different PR.

You will need to create a special branch named `gh-pages so github will build the website for you automatically. We can talk about more details in person.

Author: Sounds good! I'll grab you when you come back

Reviewer: > package specific doc should go to diffpy.pdfmorph repo in a different PR.
> You will need to create a special branch named `gh-pages so github will build the website for you automatically. 

actually the best would be to publish package docs on readthedocs.io, for example the docs for diffpy.structure are at https://diffpystructure.readthedocs.io/en/stable.

I have a TODO issue #22 to stop hosting manual at the gh-pages branch and move it over to RTD.  This should eventually happen for all diffpy packages.

Author: I'll get started on that! Thank you @pavoljuhas. So publishing on rtd is what we would want to do for the documentation for all of diffpy? Sounds like a decent project!

Reviewer: > So publishing on rtd is what we would want to do for the documentation for all of diffpy?

Yes, I think it would save a lot of work and keep the manuals in sync with the source code.

Author: @pavoljuhas would you mind providing the source for the diffpy.structure that was published on readthedocs? That would be really helpful, thanks!

Reviewer: The RTD page is rebuild on pushes to https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.structure repo with the manual sources in `doc/manual`.  There is a small control file [.readthedocs.yml](https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.structure/blob/df264a84139bc834424cc323d1bcfc1f9a4ca6cc/.readthedocs.yml) to setup the manual compilation at RTD.

Setting up an RTD build for PDFmorph should be an issue in the pdfmorph project.
Here we should create documentation links pointing to the RTD pages - once they are up.

	activated in your shell prior to running the "install" or "update" commands
	below.

PDFmorph is available from the "conda-forge" channel of Anaconda packages. Open a 
*Terminal* window or *Anaconda Command Prompt* on Windows and install PDFmorph
using the :program:`conda` command ::

	conda config --add channels conda-forge
	conda install diffpy.pdfmorph

And it should be installed! To make sure that installation has completed correctly, 
run the following command from your relevant conda environment :: 

	pdfmorph --version

If installed correctly, this command should return PDFmorph's current version number.

PDFmorph Updates
================

The Anaconda package sustem makes it easu to prepare and distribute software
packages and bugfixes. To update the lates version of PDFmorph use ::

	conda update diffpy.pdfmorph

With other Python distributions, the program can be updated to the latest version
as follows ::

	easy_install --upgrade diffpy.pdfmorph

To use a development version, visit the project source repository at
https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.pdfmorph and consult its README file.

Documentation/Help
==================

> 0.0.1 - latest

Author: @CJ-Wright we also made a milestone [here!](https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.pdfmorph/milestone/1) - so maybe when all this doc stuff is done it'll be 0.1.0?

Reviewer 3: that is correct.  We are working towards the first public release which will be 0.1.0

Author: so should I change this to 0.1.0 for the version it'll actually be upon release?

.. include:: ../abbreviations.txt

########
PDFmorph
########

Overview
========

.. note::

> 	PDFmorph is an application which makes use of the Command Line Interface. If

Reviewer 2: PDFmorph has a CLI not makes use of.

	you are unfamiliar with the CLI, it is recommended that you consult online
	resources and become somewhat familiar before using PDFmorph.

PDFmorph is a Python software package designed to increase the insight researchers
can obtain from measured atomic pair distribution functions (PDFs) in a model 
independent way. The program was designed to help a researcher answer the question: 
"has my material undergone a phase transition between these two measurements?"

PDFmorph makes use of several data manipulation techniques to correct for benign
effects such as thermal expansion and increased thermal motion before computing and
plotting a difference curve between two PDFs. One PDF is identified as the "target" 
PDF and the second is "morphed" by "stretching", "smearing", and "scaling". PDFmorph
will vary amplitude of morphing transformations to obtain the best fit between
morphed and target PDFs, then plot them along with the difference curve plotted
below.

There are also a few other morphing transformations in the program.

Finally, we note that PDFmorph should work on other spectra that are not PDFs, 

> though it has not been extensively texted beyond the PDF.

Reviewer 3: tested

Author: got it

> PDFmorph will soon be included in :doc:`xPDFsuite <xPDFsuite>`, a powerful

Reviewer 3: remove this paragraph for now.  Not sure if there is a nice way to comment it out so we can add it back later.

Author: will do!

> end-to-end software for X-ray PDF analysis. PxPDFsuite is designed for flexible,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
end-to-end software for X-ray PDF analysis. xPDFsuite is designed for flexible,
```

	activated in your shell prior to running the "install" or "update" commands
	below.

PDFmorph is available from the "conda-forge" channel of Anaconda packages. Open a 
*Terminal* window or *Anaconda Command Prompt* on Windows and install PDFmorph
using the :program:`conda` command ::

	conda config --add channels conda-forge
	conda install diffpy.pdfmorph

And it should be installed! To make sure that installation has completed correctly, 
run the following command from your relevant conda environment :: 

	pdfmorph --version

If installed correctly, this command should return PDFmorph's current version number.

PDFmorph Updates
================

The Anaconda package sustem makes it easu to prepare and distribute software
packages and bugfixes. To update the lates version of PDFmorph use ::

	conda update diffpy.pdfmorph

With other Python distributions, the program can be updated to the latest version
as follows ::

	easy_install --upgrade diffpy.pdfmorph

To use a development version, visit the project source repository at
https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.pdfmorph and consult its README file.

Documentation/Help
==================

> Alpha Version - latest

Reviewer 2: Formally it is `0.0.1`

There are also a few other morphing transformations in the program.

Finally, we note that PDFmorph should work on other spectra that are not PDFs, 
though it has not been extensively tested beyond the PDF.

.. PDFmorph will soon be included in :doc:`xPDFsuite <xPDFsuite>`, a powerful end-to-end software for X-ray PDF analysis. PxPDFsuite is designed for flexible, high throughput PDF analyses and contains many features for interrogating, comparing, and modeling data as well as simply doing data reduction.

.. figure:: ../images/pdfmorph_nacl_ex.png

> 	:align: center

Reviewer 3: It looks to me as if the morphing operations are being applied sequentially, in which case the label should be ``scale+smear`` and so on.    The colors on that plot are very ugly, as is the plot itself.  Is this using a good style sheet to make the plot?

Reviewer 3: Also, here are some comments from below:
 - I think you want to activate the py3x env on windows, not py27
 - easu -> easy
 - are we keeping the easy_instal instructions or punting on that.  If punting, comment that one out.

Author: I'll look for replacements for the plot! It was just one of the plots I found on the PDFmorph github (other options [here](https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.pdfmorph/tree/master/doc/images). Of those, it was the best/most comprehensive one I could find, but input is appreciated

Author: other stuff is fixed. Re: easy_install, Pavol said to keep it until we can do this kinda nuanced overhaul described [here](https://github.com/diffpy/diffpy.pdfmorph/issues/25)
